CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to hy-home.k8s

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the `hy-home.k8s` project! We welcome contributions from everyone.

## Getting Started

Before you begin, please read our **[Development Workflow](docs/guides/development-workflow.md)**. This guide covers:

- Setting up your local Kind cluster.
- Installing necessary tools (`kubectl`, `argocd`, etc.).
- The "Zero-to-Hero" bootstrap process.

## How to Contribute

1. **Fork and Clone**: Fork the repository and clone it locally.
2. **Create a Branch**: Create a feature branch (e.g., `feat/new-app` or `fix/typo`).
3. **Make Changes**:
    - Follow the **[Application Standards](docs/applications/standards.md)** for new apps.
    - Adhere to the **[Naming Conventions](docs/standards/naming-conventions.md)**.
    - Test your manifests against your local cluster.
4. **Commit**: Use the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) format.
5. **Push and PR**: Push your branch and open a Pull Request.

## Coding Standards

- **YAML First**: All configuration should be declarative YAML.
- **Kustomize**: We use Kustomize for resource management. Avoid raw edits to `manifest.yaml` if a `kustomization.yaml` exists.
- **Secrets**: **NEVER** commit plain text secrets. Use Sealed Secrets. See **[Secret Management](docs/guides/secret-management.md)**.

## Local Git Hooks

To enable commit-time checks (lint/format), set the repo hooks path:

```bash
git config core.hooksPath .githooks
```

## Documentation

Documentation is a first-class citizen. If you add a feature, you must add documentation in `docs/`.

- **Guides**: For how-to procedures.
- **ADR**: For architectural decisions.

We look forward to your contributions!

Commit message:

docs: Add a comprehensive development workflow guide and instructions for installing pre-commit hook tools.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to hy-home.k8s

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the `hy-home.k8s` project! We welcome contributions from everyone.

## Getting Started

Before you begin, please read our **[Development Workflow](docs/guides/development-workflow.md)**. This guide covers:

- Setting up your local Kind cluster.
- Installing necessary tools (`kubectl`, `argocd`, etc.).
- The "Zero-to-Hero" bootstrap process.

## How to Contribute

1. **Fork and Clone**: Fork the repository and clone it locally.
2. **Create a Branch**: Create a feature branch (e.g., `feat/new-app` or `fix/typo`).
3. **Make Changes**:
    - Follow the **[Application Standards](docs/applications/standards.md)** for new apps.
    - Adhere to the **[Naming Conventions](docs/standards/naming-conventions.md)**.
    - Test your manifests against your local cluster.
4. **Commit**: Use the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) format.
5. **Push and PR**: Push your branch and open a Pull Request.

## Coding Standards

- **YAML First**: All configuration should be declarative YAML.
- **Kustomize**: We use Kustomize for resource management. Avoid raw edits to `manifest.yaml` if a `kustomization.yaml` exists.
- **Secrets**: **NEVER** commit plain text secrets. Use Sealed Secrets. See **[Secret Management](docs/guides/secret-management.md)**.

## Local Git Hooks

To enable commit-time checks (lint/format), set the repo hooks path:

```bash
git config core.hooksPath .githooks
```

To install the optional tools used by the pre-commit hook:

```powershell
.\bootstrap\dev-tools.ps1
```

```bash
./bootstrap/dev-tools.sh
```

## Documentation

Documentation is a first-class citizen. If you add a feature, you must add documentation in `docs/`.

- **Guides**: For how-to procedures.
- **ADR**: For architectural decisions.

We look forward to your contributions!
