docs/guides/development-workflow.md, before:

# Development Workflow

This guide outlines the process for setting up your local development environment and
contributing to the `hy-home.k8s` project.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following tools installed:

- **Docker Desktop**: Required to run the local Kubernetes cluster.
- **Kind**: For creating local clusters.
- **Kubectl**: For interacting with the cluster.
- **WSL 2** (Windows users): Recommended environment for running scripts.

## 1. Setting Up the Local Environment

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/buenhyden/hy-home.k8s.git
cd hy-home.k8s
```

### Initialize the Cluster

We use a helper script to spin up a Kind cluster with the necessary configuration.

```bash
./bootstrap/cluster-setup.sh
```

This script will:

- Create a Kind cluster named `hy-home`.
- Configure `MetalLB` for local load balancing.
- Apply the `Ingress Nginx` controller.

### Install ArgoCD

Once the cluster is running, install the GitOps engine.

```bash
./bootstrap/argocd-install.sh
```

### Apply Root Applications

Finally, sync the state from the repository to the cluster.

```bash
./bootstrap/root-apps.sh
```

## 2. Making Changes

### Branching Strategy

- Main branch: `main` (Protected).
- Feature branches: `feat/description`, `fix/issue-id`.

### Testing Changes

Since this is a GitOps project, the "test" is often applying the manifest to your local cluster.

1. Create your manifest or change the configuration.
2. Manually apply it to verify syntax and immediate behavior (optional but recommended for fast feedback).

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -k ./path/to/kustomization
   ```

3. Commit your changes to push them through the GitOps pipeline (Autosync is usually enabled for the local environment).

## 3. Commit Standards

We follow **Conventional Commits** to streamline release notes and versioning.

- `feat`: A new feature
- `fix`: A bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation only changes
- `style`: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, etc)
- `refactor`: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- `chore`: Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools and libraries such as documentation generation

Example:

```bash
git commit -m "feat(infra): add redis operator to external services"
```

## 4. Commit-Time Checks (Pre-Commit Hooks)

This repository ships local Git hooks to run lint checks before commits.

### Enable Hooks

```bash
git config core.hooksPath .githooks
```

### Install Commit-Time Tools

Use the bootstrap script to install the optional lint tools used by the pre-commit hook.

Windows (PowerShell):

```powershell
.\bootstrap\dev-tools.ps1
```

macOS/Linux (bash or WSL):

```bash
./bootstrap/dev-tools.sh
```

If it does not run on macOS/Linux, make it executable:

```bash
chmod +x bootstrap/dev-tools.sh
```

Skip Python tools if you do not work on the demo app:

```powershell
.\bootstrap\dev-tools.ps1 -SkipPython
```

```bash
./bootstrap/dev-tools.sh --skip-python
```

The script installs `markdownlint-cli2`, `actionlint`, `kube-linter`, `ruff`, and `mypy`.
It uses `npm`, `go`, and `pipx` (or `pip`) if they are available.

### What Runs

The pre-commit hook runs the following checks when the tools are available:

- `markdownlint-cli2` for Markdown
- `actionlint` for GitHub Actions
- `kube-linter` for Kubernetes manifests
- `ruff` and `mypy` for the demo Python app

Missing tools are skipped with a message. Failed checks block the commit.

### Platform Notes

- **Windows**: Git executes `.githooks/pre-commit.cmd`, which delegates to
  `.githooks/pre-commit.ps1`.
- **macOS/Linux**: Git executes `.githooks/pre-commit` (bash). If it does not
  run, ensure the file is executable:

```bash
git add --chmod=+x .githooks/pre-commit
```

### Manual Run

```bash
cmd /c .githooks\pre-commit.cmd
```

```bash
bash .githooks/pre-commit
```

Commit message:

docs: Add a comprehensive development workflow guide and instructions for installing pre-commit hook tools.

docs/guides/development-workflow.md, after:

# Development Workflow

This guide outlines the process for setting up your local development environment and
contributing to the `hy-home.k8s` project.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following tools installed:

- **Docker Desktop**: Required to run the local Kubernetes cluster.
- **Kind**: For creating local clusters.
- **Kubectl**: For interacting with the cluster.
- **WSL 2** (Windows users): Recommended environment for running scripts.

## 1. Setting Up the Local Environment

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/buenhyden/hy-home.k8s.git
cd hy-home.k8s
```

### Initialize the Cluster

We use a helper script to spin up a Kind cluster with the necessary configuration.

```bash
./bootstrap/cluster-setup.sh
```

This script will:

- Create a Kind cluster named `hy-home`.
- Configure `MetalLB` for local load balancing.
- Apply the `Ingress Nginx` controller.

### Install ArgoCD

Once the cluster is running, install the GitOps engine.

```bash
./bootstrap/argocd-install.sh
```

### Apply Root Applications

Finally, sync the state from the repository to the cluster.

```bash
./bootstrap/root-apps.sh
```

## 2. Making Changes

### Branching Strategy

- Main branch: `main` (Protected).
- Feature branches: `feat/description`, `fix/issue-id`.

### Testing Changes

Since this is a GitOps project, the "test" is often applying the manifest to your local cluster.

1. Create your manifest or change the configuration.
2. Manually apply it to verify syntax and immediate behavior (optional but recommended for fast feedback).

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -k ./path/to/kustomization
   ```

3. Commit your changes to push them through the GitOps pipeline (Autosync is usually enabled for the local environment).

## 3. Commit Standards

We follow **Conventional Commits** to streamline release notes and versioning.

- `feat`: A new feature
- `fix`: A bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation only changes
- `style`: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, etc)
- `refactor`: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- `chore`: Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools and libraries such as documentation generation

Example:

```bash
git commit -m "feat(infra): add redis operator to external services"
```

## 4. Commit-Time Checks (Pre-Commit Hooks)

This repository ships local Git hooks to run lint checks before commits.

### Enable Hooks

```bash
git config core.hooksPath .githooks
```

### Install Commit-Time Tools

Use the bootstrap script to install the optional lint tools used by the pre-commit hook.

Windows (PowerShell):

```powershell
.\bootstrap\dev-tools.ps1
```

macOS/Linux (bash or WSL):

```bash
./bootstrap/dev-tools.sh
```

If it does not run on macOS/Linux, make it executable:

```bash
chmod +x bootstrap/dev-tools.sh
```

Skip Python tools if you do not work on the demo app:

```powershell
.\bootstrap\dev-tools.ps1 -SkipPython
```

```bash
./bootstrap/dev-tools.sh --skip-python
```

The script installs `markdownlint-cli2`, `actionlint`, `kube-linter`, `ruff`, and `mypy`.
It uses `npm`, `go`, and `pipx` (or `pip`) if they are available.

### What Runs

The pre-commit hook runs the following checks when the tools are available:

- `markdownlint-cli2` for Markdown
- `actionlint` for GitHub Actions
- `kube-linter` for Kubernetes manifests
- `ruff` and `mypy` for the demo Python app

Checks only run against files staged for commit. This avoids linting
untracked or historical files such as `.history/`.

Missing tools are skipped with a message. Failed checks block the commit.

### Platform Notes

- **Windows**: Git executes `.githooks/pre-commit.cmd`, which delegates to
  `.githooks/pre-commit.ps1`.
- **macOS/Linux**: Git executes `.githooks/pre-commit` (bash). If it does not
  run, ensure the file is executable:

```bash
git add --chmod=+x .githooks/pre-commit
```

### Manual Run

```bash
cmd /c .githooks\pre-commit.cmd
```

```bash
bash .githooks/pre-commit
```
